Uitdatabank/entry api reuse places organizers (#104)
cultuurnet/apidocs: projects/uitdatabank/docs/entry-api/reuse-places-organizers.md

> # Reuse places & organizers

Author: You'll notice I used both the words `place` and `location` on this documentation page. This is on purpose, since `place` is the term used in the endpoint of Search API and `location` the name of the property inside the event body that integrators send to the Entry API.

> # Reuse places & organizers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Reusing places & organizers
```

The UiTPAS guides always use this form for verbs in the names of guides, so I'd follow that convention here as well for consistency. (See for example https://docs.publiq.be/docs/uitpas/2d8ffb41e7f63-registering-ticket-sales)

You also already use this form in other headers on this page, for example "Storing the place ID(s) inside your application"

When creating an event via the UiTdatabank Entry API, you can and must use existing places (locations) and organizers in UiTdatabank.

By reusing existing places and organizers you save yourself work, as you don't have to create the place or organizer yourself. In addition, you ensure that no duplicates are created in UiTdatabank and that other integrators can also use the same unique and clean dataset.

Only in the case a certain place or organizer does not exist yet, a new one can be created.

<!-- theme: warning -->

> > When sending event content to UiTdatabank trough the Entry API it is essential to reuse existing organizer IDs and place IDs. Otherwise your integration can be blocked because of the creation of duplicates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When sending event content to UiTdatabank trough the Entry API you **must** reuse existing organizer IDs and place IDs when available. Otherwise your integration can be blocked because of the creation of duplicates.
```

Feels important enough to make it a strict requirement?

> On this page, we outline some options to reuse existing places & organizers from UiTdatabank in your integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On this page, we outline some options to find existing places & organizers from UiTdatabank to reuse in your integration.
```

> ## Reuse existing places

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reusing existing places
```

### Storing the place ID(s) inside your application

> This is the simplest method. You store the identifier(s) of the place(s) inside your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the simplest method. You store the URL(s) of the place(s) inside your application.
```

Most integrators will need the place URL instead of the ID to create/update events, as the `location.@id` must be an URL. Only in this endpoint would they specifically need the ID: https://docs.publiq.be/docs/uitdatabank/a6ad6b7450dc2-location-update (but when using `PUT /events/{eventId}` to update the location they will still need the URL)

* ✅ Suitable when all the events created through your application all have the same location
* ✅ Suitable when the events created through your application can have a different location, but (1) the amount of possible locations is limited & (2) the list of possible locations is static and won't change a lot over time
* ❌ Not suitable when the locations of the events created through your application are unpredictable in advance

#### Example

> In the example below, all the events created through the integration take place in "Het Depot", a concert hall in Leuven. First you'll need to find the identifier of the place `Het Depot` in UiTdatabank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, all the events created through the integration take place in "Het Depot", a concert hall in Leuven. First you'll need to find the URL of the place `Het Depot` in UiTdatabank.
```

**request**

Perform a `GET` request to the UiTdatabank Search API, including the name of the place and the postal code:

```
GET /places/?q=name.\*:"Het Depot" AND address.\*.postalCode:3000
```

**response**

> The response now contains the identifier of "Het Depot":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response now contains the URL of "Het Depot" as an `@id` property:
```

```js
{
   "@context":"http://www.w3.org/ns/hydra/context.jsonld",
   "@type":"PagedCollection",
   "itemsPerPage":30,
   "totalItems":1,
   "member":[
      {
         "@id":"https://io.uitdatabank.be/place/8248e289-c986-4006-902f-b0616dcbcde7",
         "@type":"Place"
      }
   ]
}
```

> You can now store the identifier of the place "Het Depot" (`8248e289-c986-4006-902f-b0616dcbcde7`) in your application to reuse it as location ID in the `POST` request of the event(s) that you want to create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now store the URL of the place "Het Depot" (`https://io.uitdatabank.be/place/8248e289-c986-4006-902f-b0616dcbcde7`) in your application to reuse it as `location.@id` in the `POST /events` request of the event(s) that you want to create.
```

(Note that the `POST /events` endpoint that you referred to is documented to use `location.@id` with a URL, unless you specifically switch to the "deprecated" body: https://docs.publiq.be/docs/uitdatabank/73ffd1ab81f76-event-create)

> ### Searching existing locations within the entry form

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Searching existing locations within your entry form
```

(To avoid confusion with the entry form in the UiTdatabank UI)

In this solution you directly integrate with the UiTdatabank Search API in your own entry form.

* ✅ Suitable when the locations for the events created through your application are unpredictable in advance
* ❌ Not recommended when the events created through your application all have the same location
* ❌ Not recommended when the events created through your application can have a different location, but (1) the amount of possible locations is limited & (2) the list of possible locations is static and won't change a lot over time

#### Example

> In the example below, a user in your entry form types the name "Het Depot" in the input field for the location. Under the hood an API call to the UiTdatabank Search API is made to check if that place already exists:

Reviewer: The example also filters on postal code, so we should mention that they also need to ask for the postal code first then?

Maybe we should provide an example screenshot / wireframe of such a UI?

**request**

```
GET /places/?q=name.\*:"Het Depot" AND address.\*.postalCode:3000
```

**response**

> The response now contains the identifier of "Het Depot":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response now contains the URL of "Het Depot" as an `@id` property:
```

```js
{
   "@context":"http://www.w3.org/ns/hydra/context.jsonld",
   "@type":"PagedCollection",
   "itemsPerPage":30,
   "totalItems":1,
   "member":[
      {
         "@id":"https://io.uitdatabank.be/place/8248e289-c986-4006-902f-b0616dcbcde7",
         "@type":"Place"
      }
   ]
}
```

> If the place already exists (like in the example above), it is suggested in the user interface in a human-readable way so that the user can select the place and thus choose to reuse the place for the creation of his or her event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If one or more places already exist with this name in the given postal code (like in the example above), they are displayed as human-readable suggestions in the user interface so that the user can choose to reuse one of these place for the creation of his or her event.
```

(The "it is suggested" reads as something that we suggest to the integrator at first glance)

Only when no results are found, or the results found do not match the place that the user wants to use, a new place can be created by the user.

## Reuse existing organizers

> ### Storing the organizer ID(s) inside your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Storing the organizer URL(s) inside your application
```

> This is the simplest method. You store the identifer(s) of the organizer(s) inside your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the simplest method. You store the URL(s) of the organizer(s) inside your application.
```

(Also a typo in "identifer" but that is not relevant anymore with this change)

* ✅ Suitable when all the events created through your application all have the same organizer
* ✅ Suitable when the events created through your application can have a different organizer, but (1) the amount of organizers is limited & (2) the list of organizers is static and won't change a lot over time
* ❌ Not suitable when the organizers of the events created through your application are unpredictable in advance

#### Example

> In the example below, all the events created through the integration have the same organizer, "Natuurpunt Holsbeek". First you'll need to find the identifier of the organizer `Natuurpunt Holsbeek` in UiTdatabank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, all the events created through the integration have the same organizer, "Natuurpunt Holsbeek". First you'll need to find the URL of the organizer `Natuurpunt Holsbeek` in UiTdatabank.
```

**request**

> Perform a `GET` request to the UiTdatabank API including the name of the organizer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform a `GET` request to the UiTdatabank Search API including the name of the organizer:
```

```
GET /organizers/?q=name.\*:"Natuurpunt Holsbeek"
```

<!-- theme: warning -->

> > For organizers we advice to only search for the `name` and to not include a search on `postalCode` (since this is an optional field for organizers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Contrary to places, for organizers we advice to only search for the `name` and to not include a search on `postalCode` (since this is an optional field for organizers).
```

**response**

> The response now contains the identifier of "Natuurpunt Holsbeek":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response now contains the URL of "Natuurpunt Holsbeek" as an `@id` property:
```

```js
{
   "@context":"http://www.w3.org/ns/hydra/context.jsonld",
   "@type":"PagedCollection",
   "itemsPerPage":30,
   "totalItems":1,
   "member":[
      {
         "@id":"https://io.uitdatabank.be/organizers/e83edb7f-6f23-47cd-a730-66fd7687f116",
         "@type":"Organizer"
      }
   ]
}
```

> You can now store the identifier of the organizer "Natuurpunt Holsbeek" (`e83edb7f-6f23-47cd-a730-66fd7687f116`) in your application to reuse it as organizer ID in the `POST` request of the event(s) that you want to create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now store the URL of the organizer "Natuurpunt Holsbeek" (`https://io.uitdatabank.be/organizers/e83edb7f-6f23-47cd-a730-66fd7687f116`) in your application to reuse it as `organizer.@id` property in the `POST /events` request of the event(s) that you want to create.
```

> ### Searching existing organizers within the entry form

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Searching existing organizers within your entry form
```

In this solution you directly integrate with the UiTdatabank Search API in your own entry form.

* ✅ Suitable when the organizers for the events created through your application are unpredictable in advance
* ❌ Not recommended when the events created through your application all have the same organizer
* ❌ Not recommended when the events created through your application can have a different organizer, but (1) the amount of organizers is limited & (2) the list of organizers is static and won't change a lot over time

#### Example

In the example below, a user in your entry form types the name "Natuurpunt Holsbeek" in the input field for the organizer. Under the hood an API call to the UiTdatabank Search API is made to check if that organizer already exists:

**request**

```
GET /organizers/?q=name.\*:"Natuurpunt Holsbeek"
```

**response**

> The response now contains the identifier of "Natuurpunt Holsbeek":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response now contains the URL of "Natuurpunt Holsbeek" as an `@id` property:
```

```js
{
   "@context":"http://www.w3.org/ns/hydra/context.jsonld",
   "@type":"PagedCollection",
   "itemsPerPage":30,
   "totalItems":1,
   "member":[
      {
         "@id":"https://io.uitdatabank.be/organizers/e83edb7f-6f23-47cd-a730-66fd7687f116",
         "@type":"Organizer"
      }
   ]
}
```

> If the organizer already exists (like in the example above), it is suggested in the user interface in a human-readable way so that the user can select the organizer and thus choose to reuse the organizer for the creation of his or her event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If one or more organizers already exist with this name (like in the example above), they are displayed as human-readable suggestions in the user interface so that the user can choose to reuse one of these organizers for the creation of his or her event.
```

Only when no results are found, or the results found do not match the organizer that the user wants to use, a new organizer can be created by the user.

> ### Provide a mapping when exporting your data to UiTdatabank

Reviewer: There is no solution like this documented for places. Does that mean that all integrators are required to integrate with Search API in their entry form when the places are unpredictable in advance? I'm not sure a lot will actually do that?

Author: I'm very hesitant to document it because I think a mapping for places when exporting is more difficult to execute correctly. This because when all the data is entered already in the database of the integrator, the name of the place is probably a bit different than the one we have in UiTdatabank, for example 
* `Gemeenschapscentrum De Wiek` vs `GC De Wiek` 
or 
* `KMSKA` vs `Koninklijk Museum voor Schone Kunsten Antwerpen` vs `KMSKA - Koninklijk Museum voor Schone Kunsten Antwerpen` vs `Koninklijk Museum voor Schone Kunsten Antwerpen (KMSKA)` vs ..

Because the name will most likely not 100% match the name in UiTdatabank, the integrator can assume that the place does not exist yet and therefore create a new, which will result in a duplicate.

Of course this issue also occurs for organizers to some extent, but there is a double check in the creation of organizers with the `url`. For places we don't have that kind of check.

Reviewer: Okay let's leave it out for now and we can always add it later if needed. I suspect that we'll still get some questions about it and we can always fine-tune this then based on the questions/feedback we get.

In this solution you add a check when exporting the event data to UiTdatabank. The export can take place at a different (later) time than when the event was created by the user in the own application.

* ✅ Suitable when the organizers for the events created through your application are unpredictable in advance
* ❌ Not recommended when the events created through your application all have the same organizer
* ❌ Not recommended when the events created through your application can have a different organizer, but (1) the amount of organizers is limited & (2) the list of organizers is static and won't change a lot over time

In this solution you save the relevant data for organizers inside your own application / database. Before exporting the event data to UiTdatabank a check is made to see if the organizers linked to the events already exist in UiTdatabank or not.

This check can be done on the following fields:

> * `name`

Reviewer: Maybe we should limit this to just `website`? That field is required anyway if they want to create a new organizer (so they need have it either way) and more reliable than name?

Author: I'm not sure a website is more reliable, just like the `name` a link can have many variants, e.g. the link of an organizer can be something like `facebook.com/natuurpunt-holsbeek` but also `natuurpunt.be/afdelingen/natuurpunt-holsbeek`.

Reviewer: Yes but what I meant with "reliable" is that the user will need to enter a website URL anyway (because it's a required field for creating a new organizer as well), and when they later try to map the data to UDB they have to check if an organizer with that website exists or not because it's technically impossible to create a new one with the same website. So they have to do that check already anyway. If they'd do a check on name instead it's possible that they do not find the organizer and then try to create it, only to get an error that an organizer with the same website already exists. So it's more reliable in the sense that if you check the website and you find 0 results, you will be able to create a new one. And it's still a good effort of trying to re-use organizers I think? Since it's also possible that they get 0 matches for the name while the same organizer already exists (for example shortly after a rename like Vooruit to Viernulvier, or with a slightly different/incorrect notation like "Vier-nul-vier" instead of "viernulvier")

Author: I think not all integrators ask users in their entry form to add an url for an organizer. It is for example possible that the user in the user interface can only enter a name for the organizer.
It is also possible that, when no existing organizer is found in UiTdatabank, the organizer property is omitted in the `POST` request for the event. 

We're both making assumptions about how the integrator integrates with the Entry API ofc..

Author: Slightly related: from my experience entry api integrations of partners are rather basic (sometimes too basic) set up:
- Peppered creates organizer X and place Y manually on www.uitdatabank.be before they set up an integration for organizer X or place Y
- Gezinsbond / Cegeka only makes it possible to create an event for example. All updates on an event should be done in the ui of UiTdatabank (sad but true)
- Some integrators even don't keep the identifiers of the events / places / organizers they create in their own DB (`PWK-769` as example or mor recently `III-4905`)
- ..

Therefore I think it is unlikely that many integrators really ask the url for an organizer in their own entry form, especially since that `url` is probably only necessary for UiTdatabank and not for other purposes.

Reviewer: But then how would they create a new organizer (instead of reusing an existing one) in the first place? Since the organizer website is a required field to create a new organizer?

Reviewer: Clarified on Slack that the guide is about reusing existing organizers in general and not only for preventing duplicates. In that case this makes sense indeed 👍

* `website` (this is used to keep organizers unique in UiTdatabank)

#### Example

**request**

In the request below the check is being made on the `website` of the organizer

```
GET /organizers/?website=https://www.natuurpunt.be/afdelingen/natuurpunt-holsbeek
```

**response**

```js
{
   "@context":"http://www.w3.org/ns/hydra/context.jsonld",
   "@type":"PagedCollection",
   "itemsPerPage":30,
   "totalItems":1,
   "member":[
      {
         "@id":"https://io.uitdatabank.be/organizers/e83edb7f-6f23-47cd-a730-66fd7687f116",
         "@type":"Organizer"
      }
   ]
}
```

> If the organizer already exists (like in the example above), the identifier of that organizer (`e83edb7f-6f23-47cd-a730-66fd7687f116` in this case) must be used as organizer ID in the POST request of the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the organizer already exists (like in the example above), the URL of that organizer (`https://io.uitdatabank.be/organizers/e83edb7f-6f23-47cd-a730-66fd7687f116` in this case) must be used as `organizer.@id` in the `POST /events` request of the event.
```

> Only when no results are found a new organizer can be created in UiTdatabank. When doing so, the UiTdatabank API will return a response containing the identifier of the organizer. This organizer ID must be used then in the POST request of the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only when no results are found a new organizer can be created in UiTdatabank. When doing so, the UiTdatabank API will return a response containing the URL of the organizer. This organizer URL must be used then in the `POST /events` request of the event.
```
